Include latest worker and cloud metrics recommendations (#3860)
temporalio/documentation: docs/production-deployment/cloud/metrics/general-setup.mdx

  - Temporal Cloud
---

import { RelatedReadContainer, RelatedReadItem } from '@site/src/components';

> This page shows how to do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will learn how to do the following:
```

> - [How to configure an endpoint using the UI](#configure-via-ui)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configure an endpoint using the UI](#configure-via-ui)
```

- [How to configure an endpoint using tcld](#configure-via-cli-tcld)

> - [How to query for metrics with a PromQL endpoint](#query-promql)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Query for metrics with a PromQL endpoint](#query-promql)
```

To disable a metrics endpoint, use [`tcld account metrics disable`](/cloud/tcld/account#disable).

For more information, see [tcld account metrics command](/cloud/tcld/account#metrics).

> ## How to query for metrics with a PromQL endpoint {#query-promql}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query for metrics with a PromQL endpoint {#query-promql}
```

Temporal Cloud emits metrics in a Prometheus-supported format.
Prometheus is an open-source toolkit for alerting and monitoring.
The Temporal Service exposes Cloud metrics with a [Prometheus HTTP API endpoint](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/).

> Temporal Cloud metrics provide a compatible data source for visualizing, monitoring, and observability platforms like Grafana and Data Dog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal Cloud metrics provide a compatible data source for visualizing, monitoring, and observability platforms like Grafana and Datadog.
```

> You can use functions like `rate` or `increase` to calculate the rate of increase for a Temporal Cloud metric:

Author: ```suggestion
You can use functions like [rate](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/functions/#rate) or [increase](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/functions/#increase) to calculate the rate of increase for a Temporal Cloud metric:
```

> You can use functions like `rate` or `increase` to calculate the rate of increase for a Temporal Cloud metric:

Author: Yep that's confusing. I changed these to links to reference documentation for Prometheus because they are actually Prometheus functions, not something from our platform. That should help clarify!
